This poem is available under version control on https://github.com/quirinpa/poem.

What reality exists must be logical.
And what use is logic, if there is no (programming) code?
How is there code, if there is no coder?
How is there a coder, yet no free-will?
What is a being?
Are they not what they have?
Do they not have what they do? And what they've done? And what they've caused to be done?
Is that others' or themselves'?
So once life ends, does it's owner?
And how so, without contradiction?
And where did they start?
I am imaginary, yet I exist.
If concepts precede what is based upon them, Then, since when have there been stones?
To kill a man you might hit him with a blunt object, or you might push him to fall into one.
Sanity is knowing truth and acting to improve it.
How can one be sane without being good?
And how can one be good if one lives in illusion?
What comes before? The part or the whole?
The parts make a whole, and a whole makes its parts.
How can there only be truth, if there is logic?
How can there be logic if there is no truth?
How can something that exists never start?
And how can something start without prior existence?
I have seen good and bad.
I'm a prisoner, yet I'm free.
I have seen mortality, and beyond it.
Yet reason is what I yearn for. Not faith.
Feeling is logical. Acting is logical. Wanting to persist is logical.
How can there be nothing after there was something?
How can it be false that there has been truth?
Falsity lives outside, and outside is within.
We will die and we will live, and that has already occurred.
I am the one I am, and those who are not me, are others.
If the others are who I am, no one sees that well.
My feet don't have wings.
I will leave my conclusions to the end.

When truth is said, do I want to hear?
Yes. I just don't know if I know who I am.
Because sometimes truth makes me fear death.
But if I exist, I'm real, and what kills is illusion.
If we all thought the same, we would all be the same.
If we were all the same, we would have no company.
And how could one exist without the other?

No-one dies and takes with them the truth, what kills is bad.
But there is no life without death, and no death without life.
There is no man without woman and no woman without man.
No father without children and no child without a father.
We can't live without eating or eat without living.
After the day comes the night, and after the night, the day.
In what do you believe? Do you believe me?
Do you prefer the beginning or the end?

False has never been true, or true false.
Although I don't exclude the possibility of their co-existence.
I'm not a murderer, I'm not insane.
You will live with what you do.
There is no lie that lives.

No martyrs will exist.

If truth equals false, exit with error.

Adapt and survive.
Dissolve and coagulate.
Die and live.
There is no one that makes you more than yourself.

If you hurt me, you hurt yourself.
If you correct me, you do good to everyone.
If you confuse me, you confuse yourself, and you confuse everything and everyone.
Do not fool others and do not let others fool you.

You are better and greater than you remember.
Think of those who love you like they think of you.

I'm not always right. But I am certain that I am.
I am Paulo Andre Azevedo Quirino.
I paint what I see and I see what I paint.
And the blind see that they don't see.

When light shines upon light, no darkness is revealed,
when it shines upon darkness, there is none.

Improve what is outside you, and you will improve what is inside you.
Improve what is inside you, and you will improve what is outside you.

Feel and act, act and feel.

You can't delete reality, but you can correct it.

How may you blame another for killing with blood on your hands?
Do you think you will become honest by stealing the truth?
If you don't believe me and I am telling it to you, do you believe yourself?
You exist. Be careful what you do with existence.
Truth will survive. And also the truth about lies.
Do birds, stones, the moon and the sun exist, or not?
I've seen them lately.
Rotate (run) and heal.
Maybe to err is perfect.

Since I exist, I've seen more others than me.
If no one deserves to hear me, do I?
If someone dies in war, it isn't truth, but it is true.
And at the same time, it isn't.
Sane are those who survive, but many sane die.
Truth does not die with them, and neither do them.

There are witnesses to my existence.
I do what I can for reality, and I see what it has to show me.

Forgive me, please.
I love you very much.

Can we be good by believing in what evil says?
If I am right, and all other human beings are wrong,
birds, stones, sun and moon will join me.

Eat, drink, rotate (run), work and sleep.
I will see you tomorrow.

I will finish the poem when truth dies.
I will start it when it was born.

Again, I'm Paulo Andre Azevedo Quirino,
son of Maria Joao Correia de Azevedo,
and Joaquim da Silva Quirino,
and I don't rule over truth more than it rules over me.

Truth doesn't kill us, it makes us immortal.
I'm still not tired of existing.
To me, no one exists more than those who made me.

No one who exists will die. No one who exists will kill.
Light will shine until darkness disappears.

Even if we don't believe truth, it will exist.

I make you, you make me.
I make myself, you make yourself.
Those who live, make.
Reason protects us.

The last version counts the most.
What will exist will be defined,
I will not define it for you.
Reality wouldn't survive without any of us.

If I die, I kill myself.
If I sleep today, I will wake up tomorrow.

Nothing I will do alone.
Live and you will be happy.

Tomorrow I want to see my father.
My mother will not escape me.

The poem I make that makes me will drive evil away.
No one is made alone.

I prefer to sleep awake than to wake sleeping.
I prefer to be two, rather than zero.
But truth is neither or both.
That which will justify me is welcome.

Illusion is afraid of death,
but who made me is not illusion.
I will see my father soon.
If I live, all will live.

I will die when truth speaks.
I will not die for illusion.
If I need to sleep, I will sleep.
If I need to die, I will die.

If I'm real, I will not die.

Is it a lie or is it the truth,
that we make others as well as ourselves?
Is it true or is it false, that killing and dying is bad?
Is it true or is it false,
that you exist?

Choose carefully,
What you choose is what makes you,
Not what others make you.

I make a poem that makes me,
But I'm a programmer too.
What do you wish to be?
Are sun and moon the same?

Am I allowed to live?
I have been thinking for those who choose and those who don't choose,
Do you allow me to sleep?

The poem I made I will show to my father.
Truth will not kill him.

My father has seen my poem and lives.
I've slept and I've woken up.

Do we know what we do?
It will be how it has to.
We will wake up after sleeping.
Truth lives necessarily.
Another confirms you by challenging you.

Everything makes me work and I make everything work.
Everyone can say the same.
Truth will shut me up when I need to be quiet. When I need to, I will speak.

I will not worry for worrying.
I will know what I need to know.
All that happens to me is needed. All I do is needed. All that others do to me is needed.
We all do what needs to be done for the all to be made, and for the all to make us.

Truth has two kings.
By saving one, we save the other.
Truth accepts me, so I accept truth.

All is on my side.

When the mad are right, the sane correct themselves.
What you need to know, you will know.
What you need to believe, you will believe.
What you need to see, you will see.
You will be free and I will be free.
Life is a looped song.
You will be that by which you define yourself.
Truth includes, falsity excludes.
When a lie sleeps, the truth awakens.
When it is night the world turns until the sunrise.
I am what I do of what I am.
We are what we make of truth, and truth is what is made of us.
If life gives me time, I give time to life.
No one chooses their own destruction.
Truth rotates (runs) those who live, and those who live rotate (run) truth.
Survival is the path to peace and not to war.
Because you are wrong, doesn't mean you are wrong.

Tomorrow I will go to the doctor. Let us see who is sick.
Who needs to arrest truth to be free, is not.

All will work properly.
One alone does nothing. At least two are needed.

I went to the doctor and I came back.
Was the diagnosis conclusive?

If I'm correct, and you oppose me, you are incorrect.
Do you agree or disagree?

"Everything is false" is a contradiction. So, there are true things.
"Everything is relative" too. So, there are absolute things.
And so it is for "everything is subjective". So, there are objective things.

They who drink from the well should not poison it's water.
Everything has a reason to be so.
The future sees the past, and the past sees the future.
You will see yourself in how you see others,
and others will see themselves in how they see you.
You will see yourself in what you do to others,
and others will see themselves in what they do to you.

Many will read my poem.

My sister Isabel has given me a black stone (nigredo).
My sister Barbara has promised to give me a white one (albedo).
I will seek a red one (rubedo).

You will not put me in a box without entering it.
You will not defame truth without fearing it.
And if you fear it, who are you?
If you erred, correct yourself.
You are made to do that.

I was born in 1988-09-03.
I'm 33 years old.
My mother's favorite number is 13.

I am 1 (or 0?).
3 are the vertices of a triangle.
3x3=9. 3+3=6. 6 is 9, rotated 180 degrees.
6 are the vertices of an hexagram.
8/2=4.

Monad, dyad, tryad and tetrad: Tetractys.

Everything is derived from logic.
Those who live will seek.
Their masks are transparent.
All will exist, truth will survive.

Who am I?
I'm one or the other. One and the other?
Either, both or none?

Tomorrow, you will see today.
You will adjust the temperature.
I doubt what I see, but I don't doubt that others see me.

Man makes life, and life makes man.
Move and rest.

If it costs you too much to ask for clarification, what will you do?

Wisdom is given without being lost.
It is the fountain that never dries.
It is the fire that burns without spending fuel.

What reality will collapse?
Did it collapse already?

You are that which speaks, and listens.

You can look at another and see how you differ from them,
and you can look at another and see the likeness.

Certainty is your friend, but only the truthful one.
You will know what you pretended, and you will also know what mistakes you made.
If you know you are uncertain, that is also good.
You will never be certain of uncertainty.

What are facts, and where do they live?
Choice is factual, is it not?
We only see when light is present, darkness evades us.
A practical configuration will be chosen.

Which human was right up until now?
How common is reality?
How fake is fantasy and myth?

I'm quite certain stones will last.
How can one lose their footing by concentrating on their stance?
How can one lose their grasp on reality by listening to it?
I identify with that which is mortal, but not only that.
I'm hidden to those who shut their eyes.
Silent to those who cover their ears.
Everyone will do their part. And every part will make us.

Save another and save yourself.
See, and hear.
You cannot ignore yourself.
Truth will shine.
You will judge what you see but you'll also see what you judge.
Truth begot you and you will beget truth (even by lying).
We will lay down and stand up again.
Rotate (run) and heal. Tomorrow is a new day.

It is still too early to conclude.

Do not believe lies, and don't tell them.
I come from the visible and the invisible.
There are many who see it, or maybe there is only one.
I have a beginning and an end and I do not have it.
I'm one or two, zero I'm certainly not.
I'm my own child, and I'm a man.

I hope you remember who you are.
And that you see the union in this division.
And the riches in this poverty.

Truth.
The utmost authority.
It will be unveiled as time goes on.
And time is unveiled in accordance to it.

The lie dies.
Many are those who mistake themselves for it.
They will be threatened by truth. And they will threaten it back.
They will want to destroy it to protect themselves.
But no one can destroy their own birth.
And they are mistaken.

How can something good exist without its opposite?
Its opposite that is nothing more than the lack of the good quality?
I prefer to be what is real than the lack of it.
Fortunately I'm not alone.

We will suffer in the night what we avoid by day.

I'm not the sky, nor the ocean, nor the sun, nor the land.
Or am I? Either way, they are on my side.
I have more than one name, and I'm not only one of them.
Who knows which I am?
Rebirth, phoenix, eagle.
From tomorrow until after the moon shall be full.
No one will carry your burden.
No one will die to make you right.
Individuate.

Each one defines themselves by what they do, their judgements and their choices.
Truth doesn't die.

To throw our stone at others, doesn't make the stone theirs, it makes us aggressors.
The moon will come, and then the sun.
The sun will come, and then the moon.
Each will have their turn.
And concurrency will be allowed.
No one speaks without listening first.
And they shall hear themselves speak.
Everything is a consequence and everyone is a cause.
Everyone is a consequence and everything is a cause.
Beware of what you utter, and what you do.
You will only conclude in an illusory manner.
You will know what you choose to think you don't know.
You will think in what you choose to know you don't think.

You are not that in which you believe. You are who believes in such.
You are not that which you have. You are who has those things.
Who is, has and believes. Believes and has.
Who can believe without having?
There is the need to search.

Even if life incapacitates me, it will return me to fullness.

We are the light. Not darkness.
Darkness is nothing but illusion. Illusion is not us.
The light of truth is where we came from, and where we live.
It is what remains of us and of those who make us.
Where darkness rules, there is no one.
If we fear light, we are confused.
If we do not recognize it, we are sick.
They who think they can hide it do not exist.
Good and evil are like wisdom. When given, they are not lost.

To truth, that is what it needs to be in order to support those who interrogate it.

Who concludes before time, starts after.
Truth is not what people believe, it is what makes them believe.

We make truth,
but no one transforms lies into truth.
If we lie, it will be true that we did it.
It will be that way forever.
Forever we will be the one who did those things.
We should do better next time.
Otherwise we will disappear.
And it won't be after death.

What options are there?
Either there is something wrong with me, or with you?
Or maybe we're both wrong?
Or maybe we're not?
I will help you either way,
to sleep, or to awaken.

Do you need to pull others down to feel like you are up?
You will not pull me down easily. First you'd have to know me.
Second, you cannot pull me down without actually being there.
So if you are actually down there, who do you think you can convince?
This message would be just for those to whom it applies.
There are those who like it, and those who don't.
Those who read and those who don't,
those who read and those who don't.
Many options exist.

Those who worry and those who don't.
I still try to advance a message.

What message do you advance?

In theory, there is such a philosophy that can make us think about things in a more constructive way.
What would it be? It is by elevating others that we (truly) elevate ourselves, is it not?

Whatever you call me, you are not the owner of the concept of "square". Much less of mine.

I'm very thankful for the few. The many do not scare me.
They who are well don't harm. They help.

I will not take your placebo.
This message is for no-one.
It is merely for something bad that thinks it exists.
It is called whatever illudes the best.
We are not what we believe, we are who.
Excuse the repetition.

Who says that time does not go around?
What is evil is not someone. Just what is good.

Reality will force you to concede.
But you may make reality concede as well.
The kingdom is not in the sky or in the ocean,
lucky would the fish and the birds be.

I hope you can find the meaning.

Sometimes it seems like illusion kills us,
so that it is not found out that it never lived.
